Adam couldn't make it today. He did this really fun thing where he was like, "Oh,
I can't make on Thursday anymore. Can we reschedule to Wednesday?" And then I reschedule to Wednesday,
and he goes, "Okay, cool. Can't make it then either." He doesn't like me. That's okay.
That's what it seems like, and we're just going to go. We talk about this all the time. He hates
conflict, and he hates people like this type of situation. So it would bug him a lot if
that's the conclusion you came to. So that would actually be great.
It's great. I'm going to assume that then.
But today we have Rita joining us. Rita works at CloudFlare, and CloudFlare just had their
birthday week last week where they announced a bunch of really cool stuff.
And we've been friendly for like a while now, and this kind of overdue to hop on here and
have a little chat. So how's it going? How are you doing? Are you tired from all the
birthday week stuff? Launching is exhausting, but it is also really fun. So
a little bit of both. I had the weekend to recover, and so now I'm mostly pumped.
Nice. Yeah. So when you all plan something like this, how long of an effort is it? Is it like
a six-month effort? How long are you in like, "Okay, we're prepping for birthday week mode?"
It really depends. I mean, everything that we announced, and especially this past birthday week,
came from user feedback and things that were already on our roadmap because users have been
asking for logs, users have been asking about workers and pages convergence, users are always
asking for a better performance. So there are things that in some ways, we start planning for
it quarters ahead of time because that's a part of our roadmap. But then we start kind of planning
the week generally about a couple months out, about a quarter out, and we start to look at,
"Okay, well, these are all of the things that are happening. These are the things that are launching.
What's kind of interesting out of that and start to piece together out of that? Okay,
these are the stories that we want to tell during the week. This is what we want people to come away
with, and refining that, and sometimes that leads to new announcements that emerge that
we're like, "We weren't planning on doing that, but maybe that makes sense for this week."
Yeah, it's always funny for me to see all of that because I am so bad at keeping anything quiet.
Like, when I'm excited about something, you guys see what I'm like on Twitter. I just start posting
about it right away. So I'll make like 3% progress on something, and I'll just want to announce it
already. So yeah, it's hard just keeping things under wraps because I'm virtually exciting.
I mean, to be honest, we're the same way. First of all, we build in public so much.
Our docs are open source. We have our Discord. So if you're paying close attention, nothing that
we announced last week would have come as like a huge surprise, right? And yeah, you'll see in
the weeks leading up to it myself, and Matt, and Dane, and a bunch of engineers on the team kind of,
you know, leaking sounds so dramatic, but really we're excited about what's coming,
and we can't shut up about it. So some companies are stealthier. We're really bad at stealth. We're
like, everything's out in the open, but if you're not paying that much attention, then you know,
this is your time to kind of tune in, and we really try to then spell out, "Okay, here's the
stuff that launched." Yeah, it's funny because I think, I guess now that you say it like that,
this maybe is more common than I imagined because AWS has their reinvent thing once a year,
but it's become such a common thing for everything to get announced before. And there's a good term
for it. It's called pre-invent. Everyone's like, "Oh, pre-invent season is here." And that's when
you like hear about everything before the actual launch. So I guess, yeah, I guess everyone is just
the same. Yeah. The closer it gets, the harder it is to keep shut. You know, I really admire
companies like Apple, where everything is super on lockdown. And part of me wonders,
is that something that you mature into? But realistically, I think it's either something that
is or isn't in your DNA, and that's just really not who we are. Yeah, it's funny to bring up Apple,
because I was thinking about them too. I have this weird thought there day where I'm like,
"Man, I don't know anyone that works for Apple." And that's not exactly true. I have here and
there running into people that work there. But I feel like people join there, and they just disappear
into a void. And then you just don't know anyone that works there. And you never hear about a single
thing. So yeah, how do they pull that off when they're also one of the biggest companies in the
world? On roll a fight club. Yeah, I definitely couldn't work there because I'd be like, "Guys,
look, look at this thing." Yeah, I think both strategies work because obviously you get the
big single day impact when you're quiet. But then a lot of these things, especially developer tools,
like people might get, I think it's different than like you see an iPhone and you're like,
"I'm going to buy it." Like you see it, you're going to buy it, you know? Whereas developer
tools like you see it, and you might think it's cool, but you're already working on something
that you're not going to drop everything and switch to it. So I think the transaction times
are longer. So just having stuff trickle out and staying on top of people's mind, I think
does make a lot more sense for dev stuff. I think it's okay. Yeah, I mean, the other thing too is
we want feedback on stuff that we're building. So to your point, right, an iPhone, you ship it out,
and it's out there and that's it. And you can ship software updates, which also, if you're like me,
you're maybe always a little bit behind because who has time for that? But yeah, you ship the
iPhones and they're in people's hands and that's it versus for us, a big part of the reason that we
let people play with stuff early or we pre-announce it, we do a lot of betas is because we want feedback
and by the time that we're launching something, and this is something that also is actually us
developing a bit of a new muscle and something that's changed a bit over the years is yeah, we
take a bit more time to bake things in to receive feedback. So the thing that launches on the day
of the innovation week is is much red here has gone through a few iterations. Previously,
we would first announce something and then and then put it into people's hands and then iterate
from there and there's pros and cons to both approaches and still depending on the announcement,
we like to have both in our arsenal, but a lot of the feedback and I think especially for developer
tools, it's just so much more fun if something is announced and instantly you can NPM install or
whatever. The first thing you want to do is let me play with us. So I think that's much more interesting
and a lot more fun for us too because then on those announcement days, we get to kick back and
look at the discord and people are asking questions or they're like, "Look Ma, I built this thing."
You're like, "I just announced it. How did you already do that?" Yeah, it's funny. I think no
matter how much progress we make whenever we launch something and someone actually uses it, I'm always
like really like you actually used it. Like it's always surprising that you get like people building
real stuff and it's always surprising how far people go with it in such a short time, especially
with stuff that, like I said, we're like very public with everything we build. So even when
stuff isn't ready, we'll see people grab it and like take it kind of like way too far, like maybe
more far than I would say, like you should even be doing right now. But yeah, there's always people
that'll do that, just super motivating and see. But I think that that's kind of the fun part too
of working on developer tools. Yeah, sometimes you don't even announce something at all. It's just
an API and someone will find it and someone will build on top of it. And I forget what the
there's a name for this law. Yeah, it's like if you put something into API, someone will use it and
become a permanent thing, like no matter what, even if you don't attend to it. Yeah, I don't,
there's a name for it. I don't, so I'm blanking on it too. Yeah. Matt, the second he listens to
this will be like Rita, it's obviously best. Yeah, I know the laws. I just never remember the names.
They're all familiar, but yeah, you don't get out and sound extra smart.
Yeah. Okay, so you've been so how long have you been in Cloudflare again? I've been in Cloudflare
for over eight years now. That is so crazy. Okay, so I guess eight years ago, there's obviously been
this effort from Cloudflare to build, you know, like a Cloudflare platform for people to build
applications on. That probably started around eight years ago. Like when did that really start?
It started seven years ago, or I guess a little bit more than that. But the first product that we
announced in the space was workers. And you know, the original original intent of workers was okay,
we have this network, we have some people use it for CDN, other people use it for WAF and security.
We're trying to expose all these services through it. And there were kind of two parts to it. One,
which is, you know, we looked internally at our own pace of innovation. We're like, wow, we need
to be able to go faster. And in parallel, our customers were getting more sophisticated. So
they wanted to do you know, crazier and crazier stuff that Pedro's just wouldn't cut it for.
Pedro's were like, oh, you give me the URL and you can, you know, cash everything on that URL.
But people started to want to do things by headers, by country, by cookie, and take all of these
complicated actions. So we're like, okay, we need something that will allow people to just write
code and deploy it. And we need a platform for ourselves. And so we released workers. And if
you go back to the announcement blog post for workers, you'll see a bunch of examples that are
kind of around your adding headers, caching things. And the but you quickly realize, oh,
wait, I have an origin actually that's running like if I can write code
in this very serverless way, like what else can I do? If it's crazy, innovation is crazy in that
way, you come up with something for one thing, and then you realize how many other things are
possible. And that was the beginning of the developer platform. And then really, okay, well,
now if I want to be able to build something a bit more meaningful, I need storage so that if we
introduced KV, and that was, you know, pretty limited in what it could do, but it exposed a ton
of use cases. And then we're like, okay, what's the next thing that people need to be able to do?
Oh, they need all these deployment tools. So, you know, really strangler and worker sites,
which was the first iteration of pages and then became pages. And then we've continued to add
different primitives. Yeah, to the point where today, you know, people are building full stack
applications that I think were well beyond our imagination. We first started working on this.
Yeah, the being able to like program your CDN thing, it's, it's interesting the way you describe
it, because we basically saw the exact same thing on the AWS side, we had, you know, we're helping
people deploy all these things behind the CDN. And they kept being like, well, I want to do this
if the user speaks this language, or I want to do this if they're from this country. And I want to
like redirect them in this place. And it just becomes, it's funny how like a whole computing
platform came out of that need until it makes a little sense, because there's just infinite custom
logic people want to apply. And yeah, AWS is the same thing. Like, you know, initially it was just,
you had patterns and you can like send them different places and like maybe like rewrite the
header somewhat. I think it eventually did add like a computing thing, but it's, it's so hilariously
limited it. You can run logic when a request comes in, but you can only run for one millisecond
run time limit. And it's like a, and you might already know this, but I forgetting the engine.
It's not like, it's like a very slim down, it's not like no JIS or like worker D or anything.
It's like a like pure JavaScript, like no other API is nothing. And even that like unlocked a lot,
but yeah, it's just not enough. You need like a full, a full thing eventually.
Yeah, it's interesting. There are, as you were saying this, I was like, wow, actually,
there are so many different approaches to this, right? So before we actually
embarked on workers, one of the things that we're looking at, because that's what so many
fastly users had was VCL. And so that's a really, really complex. At the end of the day, like,
it stands for varnish configuration language. So it's a config. It's not Turing complete, right?
But it is very, very expressive. And we saw a few challenges there. One, which was, if you
compare the number of people in the world that understand JavaScript versus people that understand
VCL, like every time I would talk to a customer that was, you know, looking at moving to us,
they would just be a little terrified because it's like, oh, well, Josh knows our VCL configuration.
And God forbid if Josh leaves, or maybe Josh did leave, and then you're talking to this team that's
like, yeah, I don't know what this does. And I'm terrified because everything's going to go haywire.
So that was one approach. And, you know, we knew from the beginning that we wanted something
more programmatic than that, because you can't, you know, do like particularly complicated
if statements are for loops or like really express logic through that. And at the time,
AWS had lambdas and they had lambda at edge. And both of these are slightly different approaches
too, but lambda at edge, it's interesting too, because they have a couple different definitions
of edge too. So it wasn't running in all of their cloud front locations and was still container-based.
So again, but more limited. But again, for us, we're like, okay, well, we're not going to deploy
containers because that's going to introduce a cold start. And for our use case that undoes
everything that we're trying to do. And so yeah, you have that approach. And then yeah, they kind
of have this new approach now that's a bit more in the middle. But to your point, yeah, I think
when I played around with it, last time I was trying to do something, even like return a custom
response. And you really are limited to there's an assumption of you're making a request to origin,
you're going to get a response from the origin. And you can modify kind of the metadata on either
side of that, but you can't go too far beyond that. Yeah, and you can't change this a huge issue,
we can't change the origin. So if we want complex, you can change the path, they can't change the
origin. So if you want like to build like a complex routing logic, you just can't do that.
Yeah, for the longest time, they kept directing people to lambda at edge, but that runs like after
this EDN, it like you can't change a lot of things. So a lot of stuff feels like they stumbled into
a problem and they like do a quick reactionary thing. The thing you brought up with a VCL is
funny because I think this pattern shows up in a lot of places. There's something called VTL,
which is a same concept in AWS, I mean, I think it's a velocity template language or something,
but AWS supports in a bunch of places where instead of like writing code, you can write these
config things. And like you said, it's very, it thinks very expressive, but not like really that
expressive and almost nobody knows how to use it. And the upside is it's like it's quote unquote
just config. The downside is like nobody knows how to use it, it like looks different than the rest
of your code, it takes you entirely out of like the mindset you have when you're working on other
stuff. And our son, that seaside, there's like great infrastructure as code tools out there like
Terraform. But again, the same trade off it's more configgy. So if you have like conditionals or loops,
it looks a little weird. And it looks nothing like the rest of your code. So bringing a lot of
stuff into JavaScript is really nice, because you immediately get all the return complete stuff.
Like everyone needs to do conditionals and loops no matter what type of thing you're building,
like you're about to need that. And to everybody knows it. I think the part that we've seen is
tricky is even though we've given you the ability to do like an all programming language,
you should still like kind of chill out with it. Like you should still country it like
it's config. You shouldn't like, like we see people in their infrastructure stuff with SST,
they build like these crazy abstractions and like they build all these packages that are
reusable and all this stuff. And it gets really far away from something that really should kind
of be like config. So yeah, it's that just that like you get people more power and it's good. But
you know, you got to make sure that they don't create the same mess that often happens everywhere else.
Yeah, I think that's a really interesting question of what layers the right layer for
configuration and what layer is just your application logic. And an interesting thing for us too,
was if you actually look at that original use case of I want to modify my CDN, actually a lot of
teams that manage cloth layer that are an infrastructure team that's used to CDN management,
they're a bit like, don't give me the Turing complete stuff. I'm not, I don't manage a code base
in that same way, give me a way to just manage rules. And so over time, we've actually still
continued to build out this like really complex rules engine that is much more of a configuration
language, because that's what those people want. And yeah, it turned out that this layer, what was
much more suitable for, okay, well, actually, I just want to write my application in this way.
And yeah, if you're a team that's, you know, an engineering team that's building features,
then that's exactly how you want to write it. And you want to, you know, you have all of the
development practices that you need in order to maintain this thing from, you know, source control
to testing to, you know, the rest of it. Oh, yeah, that's a huge thing. Like it's, that's kind of
what I mean by it takes you out of it. Like with normal code, there's just such a history with it,
like we've all know how to write it. There's all this stuff we collectively learned over time on how
to like collaborate on it, how to test it, how to like make it reproducible. There's so much
knowledge there. And I think a lot of tools try to like remove code and replace it with something
else. And there's some benefits to that. But like you're throwing away like such a deep
understanding and also tooling like editors are so tuned to like some of these popular languages.
And just having all that stuff work out of the box for everyone is, is quite nice.
The other thing I wanted to talk about was, um, he said it's been seven years as working on this.
Yeah, I just want to highlight like how long something like this takes. I think people conflate
this idea of you need to build something, get it out there and get feedback. That's like good.
But they kind of conflate that with, and then it all works out really fast also. But like this
stuff takes a long time and it takes like commitment to doing some of this stuff. So yeah, how, how has
it been just, you know, it's been quite a while you've been being this and working on it. You know,
if you told me seven years ago that I'd be working on this for seven years, I think I would be
a little surprised. But, you know, it's in some senses really rewarding in that, you know,
not to get into career advice and things like that. But I think an interesting thing about working
on something like this for such a long time is you get to see your decisions play out and you're
like, oh, you know, in retrospect, that was a mistake. Or I'm so glad we did that versus, you know,
because it really does take a long time for these things to play out. Like in one or two years,
you only see the beginnings, if any, of, you know, the ramifications of the different choices.
And yeah, I think, you know, it's always that there's a quote for this or something like that. But
anyway, yeah, you know, you get less done, I think, in a year than you set out to, but at the same time
you get more done, I think, in five years than you would have thought you would. So when I look at
how much is available on the platform now in terms of, you know, like primitives,
that blows my mind. I don't think I would have predicted that we would at this point have
object storage, queues, workflows, logs, KV, like there are so many AI, there are so many products.
But then there are other things that, you know, one of the first
PRDs that I worked on at some point was gradual rollouts. I think that was one of the first
things that Kent and I talked about, I would talk to a customer and they'd be like, you know,
it's super cool that I can push out a change and it's live to your network of 200 data centers
in less than 30 seconds. But that also terrifies me. Can I please have a lover by which, you know,
you know, happens over time. And there's this weird thing that happens where you're like,
yes, that makes a ton of sense. Let's start building it. And then a ton of stuff gets in the way where
you're like, okay, but we really need to do this first. This is higher priority. And this is another
priority. And all of these things kind of come up and there's unexpected complexity because
this another thing about, you know, building something for a long time is, you know, as you grow,
you get more teams. There's more interdependencies. So all of a sudden you realize like, oh, okay,
we built, you know, the like that part, but we need this other part and we need to connect these
dots. And so yeah, so certain things definitely take longer than you expect them to. And then other
things a year ago, you were asking about how these innovation weeks come together. And
you know, probably like a month and a half, two months before last year's birthday week,
we're like, we have to, we have to get AI running on Cloudflare. And we denounced constellation
previously, which was the original iteration of it. And that was where we got a lot of feedback.
That was like, this is cool, but I need GPUs. And we went from idea to AI running on GPUs all over
our edge in less than two months. So that's kind of thing where you would expect it to take longer.
And you know, that's the magic sometimes of having a deadline or forcing function is
we just like, we just don't have the time for it to take a long time. So it's just going to happen
real fast. Yeah, I mean, I think that's one of the best parts about working on something that
takes a long time. Like you said, you get less than a year than you thought, but then in five
years, you're just like, what the hell? And I think it's because the stuff compounds. And it's like
so hard to really imagine the power of that. It's, I'm sure you think about, you know,
where you guys were like seven years ago and like how difficult it was to do anything. And then now,
you're just like, what were we doing back then? Like, why are we going so slowly? You can't even
like understand how much things have come out and how much easier it's gone. Like for us, we went from
the V2 to V3. That was after several years of like kind of like rotating around the space and
like understanding it, like not really getting the primitives exactly right. Then I think we got the
primitives right. And just in the past six months, like we've done so much more than we've basically
done the entire history of the company, because everything now is set up for us to go do. And this
stuff just takes a long time. But yeah, I was surprised at the GPU stuff too. I'm like,
like, I was kind of surprised how fast all the AI stuff came together.
Given that like crazy, I mean, all the AI stuff has been really crazy. So, but yeah, I mean,
that must be the result of like all the work before then.
Yeah, I think to your point about having primitives right, that's where I mean, what allows us to
sometimes get the stuff running so quickly is we build on workers. A lot of our new announcements
are built on workers. So at the very least getting to a POC can happen really quickly.
Workers AI is actually largely runs on something that we talked about during birthday week,
runs on containers. And, you know, this is a big conversation that we've been having internally
about, you know, is that something that we expose to customers or not? But the fact that we've
had this platform for some time and we originally built it for Cloudflare Run's browser isolation
product as a part of our Zero Trust Suite. And you need a container for that. So we've had that
platform for a while. And the fact that, you know, that was something that we had, and we had a team
that was ready to go and build on it, made it that much, you know, the cold start was much faster on
that. Yeah, I mean, okay. I mean, yeah, that's something we should talk about. I think that was
maybe one of the more, I mean, you guys say it for Friday. So, you know, it was what the
containers platform stuff was one of the bigger surprises, I guess, because it now puts Cloudflare
in a completely different zone. I think for a while, everyone was kind of able to understand it as,
this is like a new way of building things. And if you like agree with this new way,
or that you want to commit to this new way, then you can go build the Cloudflare stuff.
But then introduction of containers means almost any kind of way of building can work. So we did a
similar shift to where we started very serverless focused. And there is like a large growing number
of very big serious companies that build that way. But it is an uphill battle and that you're
trying to like change the habits or like, here's a new way of doing things. You go learn all this
stuff and you agree with it and you go do it. And we shifted to now, we've done that for a while.
So like there wasn't much to do there anymore. And now we started support container stuff more.
And it's a totally different experience. It's like,
there's no one to like explain anything. There's nothing to explain. There's nothing to teach.
It's just, this is the way most the world operates. And they just like use it and they get it. And
it's much, much less of a battle. So I think it's going to be interesting to see when Cloudflare
containers comes out. I think something similar will happen obviously on a much larger scale.
I'm curious to actually hear more from you about what your experience has been.
And you know, to your point of on one hand, it unlocks so many things. And I think really
changes people's perception of what's possible on the other hand. Yeah, it was really interesting.
You know, I think we were all wondering how that announcement was going to go and what people's
takeaways were. And the takeaways surprised me a little bit or maybe the surprise of the wrong
word. But yeah, I'm very curious to see what happens when we actually put this in people's hands.
And so we'd love to hear about your experience of making that shift from
serverless containers. And did you see things that surprise you? Are people using it in the way
that you expected? Are people doing things that you're like, you know, this is not how I would
advise you to do it. Like knock yourself out. I think the main it's more like if it just feels
different. So what feels different about it is I suddenly feel like I'm talking to a thousand
ex more people. And I think that's just what happens when you break into a bigger market.
I realize before I felt like I was talking to a lot of people, there's like a lot of people that
built stuff in a serverless way. And I didn't really feel like, you know, it was necessarily small.
But the reality is the people that wanted to play containers, it's just so much bigger and
hard to even even fathom. And we're seeing people from like other communities that like have
nothing to do with JavaScript or like putting stuff together. Like someone's working on like a
Laravel, like a Laravel set up with SST and our container stuff. And that's so outside the range
of anything that we generally think about. So yeah, the surprise has just been like,
wow, there's like a lot of people out there. I feel like now we're finally seeing like everyone.
And our whole thing has always been progressive disclosure, which is we don't want you to have to
like learn so much upfront or like change it. We want to give you like incremental path to using
our stuff. And over time, we need to design a like progressive disclosure thing where like you
start to learn the things that are useful to know and you start to get more advanced and you start
to use other things that you know, so I didn't know coming in. And I kind of see containers in
the same way. And I think based on some of your team and based on that blog post, I think probably
similar where doing the container option means it's a no brainer for a lot of people like existing
workload, existing way of doing things, they can just go use it. But now they also have the ability
to like pull in these other serverless things here and there. Which even for me, I'm working on
something right now that is going to be container based. But I need to be able to spin up a lot
of headless browsers. And that makes way more sense to do in a serverless way. So like being
able to mix the two and giving people the ability to do that, I think, you know, over time, we've
just realized like the more options we give people like it just people will start to do
funny things with it that you don't that you don't imagine. I think you'll see that too. I think
you'll see people mixing containers and durable objects and all that stuff together in really
unexpected ways. I mean, people mixing all that stuff together I think is the really
interesting part. And that's the that's what we hope people will take away from this is that
yeah, you now have another tool in your arsenal that allows you to complete the picture or you
know, yeah, you don't have to force everything into the same model. But at the same time,
you know, the thing that I thought was kind of interesting is I really think people see the
word containers and stop reading, which is not too surprising. I suppose in some ways there are
literally some things like I saw questions when we announced this that are like, does this round
on firecracker? And it it there's literally a subset one that's like, yeah, it's a very long
detailed article. Yeah. Having been doing this for seven years, one thing that you realize is
distributed computing is really hard. I mean, computing actually period is really hard, right?
That's the challenge that most people have with applications. And if containers were perfect,
then what would we even be doing in the first place? Because, you know, people have Kubernetes,
like, why wouldn't they just happily be running that? And I think the reality is there are a lot
of challenges that come with that, both from, yeah, if you have a distributed audience standpoint,
which most people do, from a scaling standpoint and how many resources it takes. And, you know,
I think that that's kind of been the longtime argument about serverless versus not is yes,
you can run your $5 VPS, but most things scale beyond that. And then do you want to spend your
teams time on that? Or do you want to offload that to someone else? And a lot of what I think
historically has been done with serverless and where we saw the opportunity with workers was that
if you try to build serverless on top of containers, you end up with something that's not really all
that serverless, because it's an abstraction and it gets really quickly. You're still dealing with
regions, you're still dealing with concurrency, you're still paying for idle time and workers
flipped all of that on its head. And so if you're looking for something really serverless,
workers is just, it's going to be better. And yeah, yeah, we've had so many conversations
with people over the years where they would be like, why doesn't Cloudflare just let me
run a container and you would start asking them questions of, you know, okay, well, what would you
do? If we let you do that and they'd be like, okay, well, I have a goal application and I just
want to run it on Cloudflare's edge. It's like, okay, do you want to run it in all 200 data centers?
And sometimes they'll be like, yeah, and you're like, okay, do you want to pay for it to be running
200 times? And they're like, no, you know, or like the other trade off that people
didn't realize is like, okay, well, now our request can hit any one of these 250 data centers. And
it's gonna, it's gonna cold start. So you got closer to the user, but your net performance is
negative, not positive, right? Is that what you want? And people are like, Oh, haven't thought about
that that no, that that's not what I want. And so that's where I really think the devil is going to
be in the details and in the use cases. And yeah, I think a lot of the interesting possibilities are
going to be where we can abstract away a lot of that by combining it with things like durable
objects where in most cases, I guarantee you actually don't need a container running in 250 data centers.
But we have the ability to be really smart about where we place your container so that it is always
warm so that it is closer to users. You can do a lot of things that, you know, where serverless was
traditionally kind of associated with stateless, all of a sudden you can maintain state and do things
like, you know, build games and all that kind of stuff. So and, you know, again, if I think about
some of our use cases for it, something like CI/CD, I think is a great example where it's something
that's slightly longer running. It's not on the critical path of it's not something that you
expect to be instantaneous, right? So we can kind of schedule it wherever we can actually in this
instance, make it really cheap because, you know, during certain times of day, we have data centers
that don't receive as much traffic. We can schedule it over there and pass the cost savings onto you.
So I think in some ways it's a lot more actually interesting and it opens up more stuff than people
think. Yeah, it's funny when I told Frank about the Cloudflare container stuff, the first thing
you ask was, "Oh, can we run CI/CD there?" Because we have a CI/CD product and it's like, it's weird.
CI is such a commodity, but it's annoyingly difficult in a lot of ways because there's just
like this funny traffic pattern with it too, like sometimes because of the Pentabot or whatever,
like the GitHub thing. It has a schedule and it'll like end up triggering a bunch of our
customers CI stuff. So we'll just get like a burst of a bunch of jobs randomly and being able to like
one, CI needs to run anything because people can do literally anything in their CI, like you have
no idea what they're going to put in there. So you can only use compute that's like very flexible.
But like making sure you have capacity to handle like peak versus, you know, what your average
load is, especially when it's not predictable. Yeah, it sucks. We actually ended up deciding
for like the next version, the more newer version of our product, we run CI inside the end users
accounts at least for AWS because just trying to manage like a centralized CI service,
it just so much, so much work. But yeah, something like this would be super helpful because there's
not a lot of options for on demand containers that you can just that can kind of like run anything.
Yeah, there's, yeah, so I think there's gonna be a lot of use cases that it opens up. And again,
I agree with you that doing all these cool like next gen stuff does require rethinking how you
build things and adopting a new architecture and a lot of that is sort of related. I think a lot
of discussion never even gets that far. It gets stuck on like really basic things like pricing or
like, do you need scale? It's kind of like the tired things we see all the time. But that's not
really the reason I even shifted there. It's funny. I think the thing you said about Kubernetes
reminded me of this. So for a long time, every time I build something, I would just get generic
compute and with our Kubernetes on it and then schedule everything through there. That's how I
built everything. And what was nice about it was I never have to learn anything new, like I knew
that, throw anywhere, whether it's AWS, GCP, whatever. Then I joined this team. And for the first time
in my career, because I always worked either on my own companies or early stage, we had a dedicated
DevOps person. So it wasn't my job to figure that out. Cool. Totally fine with that. And I was looking
at what he was doing. And he was using AWS ECS for gate, which is like a managed container offering.
So you're not doing any of the work, just met the container and you pay for it. And I asked him like,
this is like three times as expensive. Why are we doing this versus the thing that I've always done?
And he said something to me that like totally changed the way that I looked at everything. And
I felt so stupid for not thinking about it this way. He was like, so at the time, we were actually
building out a payment processing system. So we had to go through all of the compliance stuff for
it. He was like, yeah, you're talking it. He was like, you're basically describing like a $15 a
month per container versus like a $45 a month container situation. In the $45 a month container
situation, we get to go tell all the compliance people that we don't have access to the servers.
And that is a little worth like tens of thousands of dollars to like not have to be like, here's
how we're hardening like that whole thing, right? So that like you said, like comparing
the five of our VPS thing, it's not really about the little cost of the compute. It's about
the security questionnaires you get when you go with talk to like a big enterprise company.
It's about like the compliance stuff. Being able to say like, I don't have access to any of that
stuff, like eliminates so many of the questions, so much of the burden. And that it felt silly for
me to like bring up like a $30 difference, you know, in the face of that. Yeah, ever since then,
that's when I was stuck to open my mind to, okay, like, if I do more serverless stuff,
all of these problems I've been dealing with my whole career or something. So I'm like,
got and there's a lot of things like that to go away that I don't think you talked about a lot.
Yeah, you touched on two things that I think are really interesting, maybe three. But the first is,
you know, the setting up Kubernetes and scheduling, everything was kind of how you'd always done
stuff. And I think that in that way, you know, people there's people always ask like, what's the
best dx? And I think the best dx is the thing that you're used to. That's the thing that's always
gonna, it's not an objective thing, right? It's actually, it's gonna be the thing that feels the
fastest to you. And that's something that we think about a lot is like, how do we, we have this
actually pretty different programming paradigm. And so how do we expose it in a way that does
feel familiar so that you don't feel like you're relearning everything? Because when you do have
to do that, it does feel like this really big hurdle of like, okay, I know that my way of doing
this is inefficient and requires like five, four loops, and that doesn't make sense. But at least
I'll get it done and I couldn't call it a day. So yeah, you know, that's why we've been working on
the node compat stuff. And I think that containers is gonna go really long away there of just giving
people something to hold on to that feels familiar and kind of get started from that. But yeah, I
think that the second thing that's really interesting here is to your point, it did. All of that compliance
stuff didn't matter to you when you were building as an individual. And at the same time, you know,
that difference between like $15 and $45 felt really significant to you. And I feel like that's
where things sometimes get lost in the Twitter conversation too of, you know, I think it's great
that they're such a big community of people. You know, I think we're both that way. We just like
to build stuff in our spare time. And it's a great way to learn new technologies. But what you need
for, you know, your blog or your side project or whatever is so different from the requirements
of a company. And that's where, yeah, like, you know, knock yourself out, setting up Docker on a
$5 VPS, like it just doesn't matter. But when you're running in production, and you're doing this as a
part of a multi million, multi billion dollar business, where literally every second of latency
correlates with revenue, where, yeah, you have compliance requirements to meet where, you know,
people's time really adds up. If you think about, you know, the cost of an engineer,
$100,000 even starts to look pretty small compared to, you know, all of the alternatives.
Yeah. And the other thing is like you're, and you talked about it a little bit earlier,
when your team size grows, it's just always a negative thing. Like it's,
it benefits to it. There's like always a permanent negative thing when there's just more people
involved. So even if it's sometimes for me, I'm like, even if it's cheaper to hire people to do
it ourselves, like the fact that we can keep our team smaller, like that's worth like some kind of
crazy and tangible amount. Like, yeah, I saw I was at my last company where we did something where
it made us a lot more money. We like, in house, something that made this, again,
this payment thing, it made us like a crazy amount of money. And like on paper, it like made total
sense. And nobody would really think like, of course, like everyone just, of course, we should
do that. Like we're making all this money. But it like grew the organization, like we needed to
bring in people on the engineering side, which meant we needed more people on the recruiting side,
which meant we need people more people on the HR side. And then then we needed like more data
engineers to handle this stuff. And again, it was all extremely profitable to do, but it kind of
permanently changed the culture of the company. And I always wonder, it's not like we would have
been sitting there doing nothing. We would have been working on something else instead. And I
kind of wonder if we could have worked on something that was a lot more differentiated.
But yeah, it's hard to see past the direct. This is technically more expensive than if we
in house it. There's a lot of these like intangible things that come up.
Yeah, I think that's going to become even more interesting in some ways in the AI age where
the productivity of a single person can go so much further in some ways, right? And so,
yeah, I do wonder if especially, yeah, like as a small startup as a team of three, you can go
so far so fast, just bootstrapping things and building in a serverless way.
But yeah, I wonder if there's going to be like even more and more scrutiny over, you know,
build verse by and what's the, you know, liability of growing a team? Yeah. And this stuff is so
complicated because there are ways to like if you have like a very traditional application and
you move it to the cloud, you're going to look at what you're getting, you're going to be like,
this sucks. This is a scam. It kind of is like you're just paying for regular servers, but like
10 next more and your applications are very traditional applications that can literally run
anywhere. So why would you pick the run in the cloud? So I totally get that perspective.
I also get the perspective that not all serverless is the same, you know, like there's a lot of
stuff that has been serverless and is like really out in the world is like, this is a
serverless way to do it. That doesn't have a lot of benefits of being serverless in terms of like
the cost being basically super cheap or the capabilities being really powerful. And so people
have an impression of what serverless is that isn't necessarily like the accurate representation
of it. So yeah, I still really, even though with our shift to like working on stuff outside of
serverless and I think same for you for all of you, I still like believe in that model. And there's
just so many problems that now that I'm doing it, I'm putting something that's in the container
way again, I'm like, I just saw this problem now or like, okay, this thing can get like a burst of
requests. And then that's just going to overwhelm the whole system and nothing's going to work.
And like, I'm remembering that was like 80% of my work. People always talk about scale where they're
like, oh, yeah, yeah, like keep scaling things up and up and up. A lot of times my work was like,
how do I slow shit down? So it doesn't overwhelm the system and shifting the serverless like made
that like kind of go away and I'm like back dealing with it again. So yeah, it's what you said,
like people are used to the reality is you can get good at anything like whatever technology you're
using. There's stuff that is perfectly good at there's stuff that's bad at you spend enough time
with it. You're going to get good at mitigating bad parts and taking advantage of the good parts.
So that's that's true of everything. So I get why like if you're used to something,
it doesn't feel that bad because you're going good at using it. But you can get good at using
a new thing too. I think also to your point about, you know, if you're managing a bunch of servers
and then you look at something like the cloud and you're like, oh, that's so much more expensive and
still managing servers. If you've been doing that and you have a team that has that in-house
expertise, then it makes sense to keep doing that in some way. But if I think back to your comment
about the product is growing, we need to hire more people in order to keep up with customer demand
and all of that. The availability of talent, I think, is something that everyone in this industry
struggles with. And so then I think the question also becomes, you know, I think you're odds of
being able to hire someone that's really capable. And like, I think that there's this aspect of,
sorry, I'm struggling to think of the word, but Bay Area to entry effectively, right? You can
get a really smart engineer that if you give them the tools that they need vis-a-vis serverless,
can get running just slinging code versus, I think, finding people that if we take the example of
literally managing physical servers, there are just far, far fewer people in the world that are
capable to do that. So again, calibrating that, who is your next hire going to be? And do you want
to spend a much money trying to get talent that's very uniquely specialized and knows how to do all
the stuff or, you know, like, today you can get a really great college grad, especially, you know,
with the help of AI that is going to be able to, you know, get running so much faster if, you know,
that, like, all they have to do is figure out how to run JavaScript.
Yeah. And I think the other interesting thing, I mean, you have this perspective, I have this
perspective too. We just see a lot of companies building in all sorts of ways. So in a lot of
discussions, people describe like these horrible scenarios of like, it just makes it seem like this
stuff can never work out. But like, every day, we see, you know, thousands of companies that
are on their own, making their own, like, rational decisions for whatever makes sense for them,
choosing to build in a certain way. And it just works. And it works particularly well. I get building
it in all sorts of forms. So you just kind of get less nice for me, just like, the way people,
the stuff is described, you feel so exaggerated, because like, they're just people doing this
every single day, and they like never, they're never like, introspecting, like, is this right?
There's not thinking about this stuff. They're like, it just never comes up.
Yeah, it's hard to like get a sense for that. We just are seeing the discussions around these things.
How's New York? I know it's good in all time, which was my wife's favorite time of the year, but I
think it's a lot of people's fair time of the year. It's definitely my favorite. Every day,
I'm just savoring. There are, I think, like 16 weeks in the year, maybe a little less than that,
where New York is just perfect, and they're spread across fall and spring. And every day of those,
I don't want to leave. Yeah. It's funny, because I'm such a little like,
I'm like a little baby with this stuff, where I'm like, the moment it gets a little cold,
all I can think about is that means winter is coming. So I could just never enjoy fog,
because to me, it was like an impending joke. It was like a sign impending exactly.
It's all I can think about. I'm like, it's coming. It's coming again. It's going to be horrible.
But most people, I think, know how to enjoy it. People love fall in New York.
I think the way that you feel about winter is how I feel about summer, where winter, I'm like,
I can handle. I can be cozy versus I don't deal with the heat very well. So that's how I feel in
the spring, where I'm like, Oh God, the temperatures are rising. It's coming. Yeah. My favorite part of
New York was I had this like crystal clear image in my head because I feel like it literally happens
this way every single year. You'll be the winter. And also only one day you leave. It's like nice.
You leave work and it feels like some AI generated scenes. It's like everyone's walking around happy
eating ice cream. There's like people skateboarding and everyone's like, it's like 4pm and everyone's
kind of already out of work. And so the most idyllic scene you can possibly imagine. It just happens
every single year. And I'd like clearly can remember that. I know exactly what you're talking about.
And yeah, it's like, it's only somehow a Friday. That's the first magical way. And yeah, everyone
is just having the best time of their lives. It's so cute. Yeah, I know. It's a yeah, I think it's a
nice thing about having seasons. There's like these rhythms to it. Now that it might be for two years,
I guess maybe two and a half years or so. It's funny because it's like, it feels very different.
It just feels like one continuous sense of existence. Like there are seasons, but like I don't really
perceive them that much. And it feels totally different. It almost feels like time is frozen.
And there's things I like about it, but I can see how it might drive people kind of crazy.
No, I know exactly what you mean. I used to live in San Francisco and it's funny. I was just there
last week for birthday week. And every time I visit now, it is actually, it's New York Falls
weather, but year round, which for me is actually, I'm like, that's my perfect climate. I know some
people love Miami or San Diego, where it's sunny. For me, I'm like, this is ideal. And sometimes I'm
like, I can't believe I love this weather behind. But there is a nice thing about the rhythm where
you're always looking forward to something. And yeah, there's these changes and you get different
produce and. Yeah, oh, yeah, the produce stuff is. I mean, yeah, I think we still have like seasonal
eating here too. But as a weird to eat, I don't know, pumpkin soup, when it's like 85, 90 degrees
out. Okay, this is what I was going to bring up. This is the, this is the weirdest thing for me,
because I grew up in the Northeast, from the ages of five to 30, basically, within the Northeast.
And there's this permanent thing in my head of it's Christmas time, it's snowy, people put up
Christmas trees, you put up breeds, and it feels a certain way. In Miami, guess what? They do all
the same stuff. They put up breeds, but it's like 90 degrees. And it just looks like, I think
aesthetically, it just looks, it just feels wrong. I think innately, you look at like all those green
like, Christmas-y plants and stuff. And it just does not make sense. And I wish people here would stop
like, my wife says, the Northeast has like a monopoly on like, holidays, basically, like the
whole country, like, oriented towards like the Northeast version of the holiday, where I'm like,
this makes no sense. Like, this, this looks off. Like, you even see this at Christmas, like,
like the, like the red, you know, banners and all that. It just feels totally wrong. And I feel like
we should just come up with our own thing that's totally different. It just, it just feels off.
I mean, you think of, you think of October and Halloween, and you think of Christmas,
you imagine Meg Ryan, you know, in New York and appropriate weather. If you transplant Meg Ryan
into Miami, it makes no sense. I know, it's horrible. And then like, in fall, people were like,
we're flannel. And I'm like, you are melting in that. Like, that's just not the right thing.
But yeah, it just somehow the Northeast has that influence over. I think over more than just the
rest of the US. So my partner is from Australia. And so I never really thought about it. But
their business is in the summer. And so, yeah, you know, like Christmas barbecue.
Exactly. I was going to be on the same thing. I met someone from, someone from South Africa
worked with me. And he was like, Oh, yeah, Christmas, like watermelon and barbecue. And I'm like,
what are you talking about? That just sounds insane. But yeah, it's all flipping.
Santa and watermelon and barbecue get out of here.
Just like, I, to be honest, I still like refuse, like my brain, like, understands.
It's real. Like the same way I understand a dinosaur is a real, but like, I'm just like,
no, it can't have really like, it just, I don't, it doesn't really make sense in my head.
I feel like I need to go there and be there to understand it. And that means like our summer
hall. I guess our summer holidays are, I guess, like, specific to the US, like for the July,
but then their summer holidays are like cold, really weird. I feel like this is not talked about
that much. Like half of the world is on the opposite schedule. And we never talked about it.
Yeah, we're very more than hemisphere centric. Yeah. We're like, it's getting so cold. And then
meanwhile, the other side of the world's like, Oh, yeah, we're looking forward to summer.
Well, it's wild. You're going to be out here in a couple of weeks, right?
Next month. So November 18th. That's right. Yeah. I, I haven't been cold in a very long time.
Like physically, I haven't felt the feeling of cold even on a jacket.
So my, my experience in New York was a, so I lived there for 10 years. The first five or six years,
I was just like, I'm just going to layer up. I'm just going to layer. And that's how I'm going to
deal with the cold. I'm just going to keep layering. And it just never layered well. And I was basically
like freezing all the time. And then finally, I was like, you know what, I'm just going to give
in. I'm buying one of these crazy expensive, like meant for traversing, I don't know, like the
North Pole South Pole, whatever, jackets, like Antarctica or something. Yeah, exactly. So that,
I went to the company, Arturics. I don't know, you know, you pronounce it. And what's cool about
their stuff that's pretty lightweight. I bought it. And I was like, Oh, this is why I was so miserable
the whole time. I can really wear a t-shirt and put that thing on. And I'm, and I'm good. Like,
I'm good for the whole winter. It's such a good jacket. So I have that somewhere. I don't think
November is cold enough to justify that. But I'm going to, I'm probably going to wear it because I
don't want to feel cold at all. You might as well, I don't know, it does get pretty chilly,
especially in the mornings. The way you just made me think of with the layering is the funny thing
about San Francisco. And the thing that I do cherish about New York summers is that it's warm in the
evenings versus in San Francisco, you can have the most beautiful sunny day and then the second
the sun sets. If you didn't think ahead and bring layers, you just go to instant freezing.
Oh, yeah, I hate that. I'm so about that stuff. I'm happy to meet in New York too in certain times
of the year when it was like that. Yeah. It's, it's just like, I just didn't know it. Basically,
most of the time I lived there, maybe like, same percent of the time I lived there, I just didn't
know how to dress properly for the weather. But I got, I got that jacket and I also got one of those,
those crazy hats that made the raccoon fur look like that. And they're called heaters.
I love that. You have to bring that out here for sure.
I'm going to bring everything. That's like, that was like my setup. And once I had that,
I was like, I am never going to be cold again. It's a solved problem. Like, we have the technology
to be warm. You've got to commit to it. Also, it's like so worth it too that the jacket was like,
$1,000, which seems like a lot. But I use it for five years. It still looks brand new and it basically,
you know, like saves my ass for half the year. So yeah, I was thinking there must be some comparison
there to be made with like servers and serverless and like, advertising it over the cost.
Yeah. A lot of life is just buying the bullet and just doing it. My, you know, like, Liz refused to
make this shift because the reality is is like, the thing I hated about the winner is it's just so
bulky. Like everyone's just so bulky. Like everyone's like wearing all this stuff. And like,
you go inside and everyone's like taking off layers and like piling it on something.
Just isn't overstimulation. Yeah, exactly. And so for her, she's like,
none of those jackets are like cute. So for her, she was just like very much resisting
that. And she was just always cold. So that's a challenge.
I think that's why fall is the Supreme season. So today the weather is like you can wear a sweater
outside, but you don't need a jacket, which I feel like there is maybe actually like two weeks
in the year that are like that. Everyone gets to see your outfit. You look cute because it's not
hidden under, you know, your tundra jacket. So yeah. Yeah. And then the winner, I would just,
I would literally, I've gone like 10 days without leaving my apartment and stuff like I would just
hide inside. So it's not that I think just was not the environment for me. But you know, I do miss
it. I think I'm excited to be back there in November. I was back. Oh yeah. When I met you
for the first time. That was my first time back. And you might have experiences like this too.
I was walking around and I just like, like these flood of memories come back. Like I had
walked down streets and I like remember all these like random things from years ago as a really
crazy experience. That was my first time going somewhere where I used to live. And it sounds like
you've lived in a bunch of places. So you might have, I mean, when you were at San Francisco,
you probably had a similar experience. That was my first time. And I was like,
felt really crazy. Like I never had something like that. It's such a weird feeling. I do experience
it every time I'm back in a stuff, especially because the last couple years of me being in San
Francisco were during the pandemic. And so there are the years that I spent going to the office.
And so, and then there was all this time that I didn't. And now every time in San Francisco and
I go to the San Francisco office, especially in Soma in that area, it feels like I have so many
memories. But also I was such a different person then. And yeah, you just kind of become that person
again in a way. Yep, exactly. It's a very out of body feeling. Yeah, it was always kind of overwhelming.
I was like, after two days, I was just like, I kind of want to leave. This is too much. Because
that's the only place I've ever lived. So it was like a lot of very intense. But I am excited
to be back in November. I think you're coming to our event we're doing, right?
Yeah. Are you going to drop a sneak peek of what you guys have planned? Are you going to manage
to keep a secret? I think what we're going to do is we're not going to say anything.
But we're going to be building stuff for it live two days before. So whoever joined is what
you were saying before, like if you're paying attention, you're going to know what we're doing.
But I don't want to officially announce it because during the event, I want to start off with a
series of misdirections where it seems like I'm just going to tell you what I'm sure a bunch of
there aren't listening to this. I want to start off the event, and I want to thank everyone for
coming. And I want to be like, okay, today we're here to discuss the caching differences between
next JS 14 and next JS 15. I'm going to pull up a slide deck that has like 200 slides and
I'm going to start like going into it. So we want to like, you know, just throw people off. But, uh,
yeah, I'm looking forward to it. Me too. It's going to be awesome. Yeah. All right. Well,
thank you for joining today. It was fun. Yeah. We're all super excited about our thing.
You're working out. I haven't dug into any of it yet, but I'm going to do that tomorrow, today or
tomorrow, most likely. Have a whole list of things to go through and I'll probably do it on stream
again. Nice. Yeah. So much of our team tuned into your last stream and we're all like,
oh boy, rough edges. Let's go fix them. So yeah, if you want to cover more for us,
actually, we're doing an internal thing called fixed over for us. So this month, we are very
focused on our own observability and standing down all of those rough edges and finding paper
cuts and fixing them. So this perfect time to raise all those things. Cool. All right. Well,
cool. Thanks for joining. Thanks for having me. Yep.